React, sometimes referred to as a frontend JavaScript framework, is a JavaScript library created by Facebook.React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
React is used to build single-page applications.React allows us to create reusable UI components.

How does React Work?
Instead of manipulating the browser's DOM directly, React creates a virtual DOM in memory, where it does all the necessary manipulating, before making the changes in the browser DOM.

React Environment setup
 method-1
       1.install node.js
       2. open a folder in js code in which u wants to create your react project
       3. open terminal and run-  
                               npm install -g npm
                               npx create-react-app myreactproject
       4. it will install everything that needs in a react app but this process is usually seems slower
       5. u can now test your installtion by using below commands
          a. npm run start -- it will start local dev. server in browser this server watches changes and automatically refresh the page
          b. npm run build --This script creates a production build of your app , it minimies our code and all outputs saved here , we can use it in deployment/production phase
       6. deployment- now we can deploy our project on hosting sites like GitHub Pages, Netlify, Vercel, or traditional web hosts.



Extra tools:-
        react dev tools chrome extension:- It allows you to inspect the React component hierarchies in the Chrome Developer Tools.You will get two new tabs in your Chrome 
                                           DevTools: "⚛️ Components" and "⚛️ Profiler".
       Thunder client :-  It lets us test APIs within the editor.
        auto rename tag :-

        
         
   method-2
        1.install node.js
        2. open a folder in js code in which u wants to create your react project
        3. open terminal and run-
                               npm install -g npm
                               npm create vite@latest
         4. give project name-> select framework -> select varient and all done
         5.now move to viteproject folder using -   cd projectname
         6. npm run dev

note- delete unnecessary file from both the methods installtions 
     in method 1 keep - App.js, index.js
      in method 2 keep - App.jsx, main.jsx 
and also delete unnecessary things from these also , now your project is clean

         
